# CNS_FINAL 10/20/2025

A first attempt using the prompt we generated in class produced 'new_prototype.md.' 
After going through that document, I realized it had very little to say about governance in the city and I updated my prompt to reflect this. Somehow, in trying to save the result of the new prompt, I erroneously saved it to the same new_prototype doc, rather than creating a new document. To salvage that, I tried to kill the new prompt while it was still running, but then, I had already lost the first new_prototype.md. I replaced the prompt with the original one we generateed in class but as expected, I didnt get the exact same thing I had before. This new one had more governemnt information, though still not enough. It also had a slightly different structure. The first one had bullet points of relevant sources under each section and some sort of recap toward the end. But the new document, didn't list the names within each section as bulltet points. Though it sometimes makes reference to the relevant sources under the sections, the bullet points, which I feel draw more attention to the source, only came at the end. Still they were similar in content. I liked the first format, but I prefer the content of the secoond result.
I then made adjustments to the prompt, and got a second document. This time I saved it correctly as 'second_prototype.md.'

The adjustment to the prompt that produced 'second_prototype' was very minimal. I only wanted to see what the first document would look like with more information about city administration. I also tweaked the prompt so that it could reflect the difference between Baltimore city and county, since I feel like that is something I wondered a lot about when I first moved to Maryland.

One difference I immediately noticed between the two documents was that the first result (new_prototype) flowed more naturally at the beginning that the second one (second_prototype). In the first document, the LLM introduced things like Safe Streets and immediately went on to explain what that is about, which makes sense to me, because anyone unfamiliar with the area would wonder what that is. But in the second document, not enough details were given to topics like the Safe Streets program even though it was mentioned in the introduction. The document instead launches straight to key political players and institutions. It is not surprising that there is more political leaning in the second draft because my guide clearly requested the model to do that. At first, I felt it was doing too much with that by tying most sections to a political angle. It wouldn't have been a problem if the beat book is being developed for a person covering "Baltimore Politics," rather than just Baltimore, so I did not really like that. But as I read further, it reduced and I began to notice other angles that were not present in the first draft. Some examples can be found under the section labelled "Unfinished stories and ongoing sagas." This section suggested that the reporter explores stories around Catherine Pugh, the former mayor of the city who went to jail for fraud. Here, the LLM encouraged the reporter to find out what has become of the new mayor now. I think this idea would interest any reporter new on this beat, if it has not been covered already. It also suggested a follow up to the proposed relocation of Preakness Stakes. These two ideas were not included in the first prototype.
Another thing I really like about the second prototype is the information it provided about Baltimore city and county. Though not too much was said about it, the LLM pointed out a few similarities and differences: Both have governments, school systems, police, but they have common problems, like the drop in number of childcare providers.
I really like how the first document listed story ideas under each section, rather than lumping them all together at the end. This doesn't make much difference, but I feel like I relate more with that structure, like it can easily trace the backstoroy behind every idea more easily that when everything is lumped together.
To combine the flow of the first draft with the information in the second one which I think I like better, I refined the prompt again, asking it this time to include the government angle but not to over-emphasize it. I retained the part of the prompt that talked about Baltimore County/City, since I liked the information it produced. I like the tone and did not bother with that. After updating the prompt, I saved it to another document 'third_prototype.'
Because I liked the response from Claude Sonnet 4.5, I didn't use Haiku again after the first time.

The third document put the story angles where I hoped they would be: within each section. I think it also gave more details on some of the issues raised. An example is the Squeegee workers. It was in this third draft that I learned what the deal really is with the Squeegee workers. Other drafts mentioned Squeegee workers, but this third draft explained that they were controversial because of a shooting that occured in 2022.
It was the same thing when economic investment and inequality was discussed in this draft. Other drafts refered to places like the Mondawmin area that have struggled with this, but only the third prototype traced the problem back to the Freddie Gray inicident, which I think is relevant, even if not too recent.
In the third draft, some other sources like Chang and Ford were introduced. I think they can be good contact persons for a new reporter on the beat.
Deapite sll the details the third prototype contained, it left out one of the most interesting ideas I found in the second draft: the story about the former mayor sent to jail for fraud.
I guess that is what the LLM interpreted as cutting down on political focus.

Though I really liked my third draft, I do not think I did too much to influence how it turned out. The improvements I made to the original prompt is pretty much adding a government angle, a Baltimore county/city emphasis, and then reducing the emphasis on the government angle I initiallly added.
I somehow feel like the third draft being better may have had more to do with chance than me. So though I am comfortable with this book, I decided to generate another book without the tags.
So I used the same prompt.txt document that generated my third prototype and only used a json file without tags.

The no_tag_prototype had a lot more bullet points. It also seemed more impersonal than the others in its tone and outlook.
But this version gives a population break down of the city and some other relevant information.
I particularly like this piece of information:
" 'Because of the regulations and because of the guidelines that surround children under the age of 2, many of the providers and centers are no longer taking infants,' said Brenda Velez-Jimenez, a licensed family child care provider."
It gives a lot more context to the problem of declining childcare providers.
Another piece of information and story angle that I find interesting in the no_tag_prototype: Food access in "food deserts"—Sandtown-Winchester has 109 places to buy liquor and no grocery stores. How are residents coping in 2025?
Even my story on the fraudulent mayor is back.
But there are still many areas that information is scant. No mention of Freddie Gray. No mention of Ford.
I would choose my third prototype (third_prototype) over this, but with the extra information in the no_tag_prototype.
But going by the results of the no_tag_prototype, It looks to me like we could do without the tags.

What I take out of the entire exercise is that I may not get everything I want in the same beat book, unless I expresly say something like: "include the Freddie Gray case, the fraudulent mayor and the reason that childcare provider numbers are declining" in the prompt, which I amm not sure how that would work.